Construction has begun on the long anticipated Bridges For Music (BFM) school in Langa. The school aims to teach adults aged 18 to 30 music production and related entrepreneurial skills.BFM co-founder Trenton Birch said they are excited construction has finally begun after two years of paperwork. The school is the first of it s kind in the country, he says.The academy will offer audio production, marketing, finance, computer literacy, communication skills, graphic design and film and video editing.Birch hopes construction will be completed in January next year with the aim to open at the beginning of February.The school's syllabus will be made up of a main programme and an after-school programme. A five month course in music production and entrepreneurship will be offered as part of the main programme and there will be a maximum of two classes which will take 20 students each.The after school programme, will be specifically aimed at high school learners aged between 15 and 18 and offer music theory, DJing, filming, yoga, meditation and music therapy.BFM is a non-profit organisation dependent on donations, but Birch said the school was not going to be free. "Students will be required to pay a small fee because we believe that if things are given for free then people don t work hard enough for them, and we do not want a case where students start dropping out of the programme," he said.The school will be situated at Langa's Tsoga Environmental Resource Centre on Washington Drive. Students will need to have matric and some experience in the industry. Applicants will undergo an interview process, where they will be given a chance to showcase their skills or experience in such areas as MCing, poetry and DJing."Anyone can apply to be a student. This school is not only open to Langa residents. We have a very strong relationship with the Langa community ... Some of the board members of the school are from Langa.Workshops, hosted by local and international volunteers, will also be offered.The school will operate five days a week. A first round of applications has been completed; the second round of applications will open in June or July next year.