 After a mass meeting today at which they were addressed by the acting vice-chancellor, students at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) in Port Elizabeth resolved to continue boycotting classes until their demands are met. Sinethemba Msomi, of the Fees Must Fall movement, told students: “The Fees Must Fall struggle will continue. We are not apologetic and we are not going to apologise to anyone, particularly those who speak from a position of privilege. We are fed up with poverty. We are fed up with the continuation of the exclusion of black people.”  Msomi said the boycott of classes would continue as the students felt that they were about to reach the apex of the struggle. “We are fighting a just cause. The highest decision-making body of the university will be having a meeting this week. We want to be part of that meeting because this call for free education is for the entire community and generations to come. This is the only movement that has inspired real hope in the entire 22 years of freedom.” Vice-Chancellor Sibongile Muthwa told students the university was addressing the issues raised by the students. She said some of their demands had already been met, including an academic recovery plan, and steps to deal with racism and transformation. On the issue of fees, she said the university saw the subsidised 8% increase in fees as a grant from government. She said steps would be taken to deal with student debt and affected students would be allowed to continue with their studies. A debt relief committee staffed by student leaders and members of staff had been set up. “We therefore request you to nominate your leadership to lead that committee.” Students currently owed the university close to R200 million, she said. Muthwa also said the university was talking to embassies and the Department of Home Affairs on behalf of foreign students whose permits were about to expire. After her address, one student said, “She has explained nothing. The issue of debt relief does not need a committee but somebody from the department of finance to just cancel the debts.” Another student said, “She speaks as if she doesn’t know that racism is rife here.”